---
type: "docs"
title: "Configure a Gremlin Command Reaction"
linkTitle: "Configure a Gremlin Command Reaction"
weight: 70
toc_hide: true
hide_summary: true
description: >
    Learn how to configure a Gremlin Command Reaction
---

The Gremlin Command Reaction provides a way to automatically execute Gremlin Commands based on the Query Result Change Events generated by a Continuous Query. In the configuration, you specify a separate command to use for added, updated, and deleted results. The commands contain parameters where fields from the change will be substituted. Each individual change results in a single command.

{{% alert tip %}}
The Gremlin Command Reaction as implemented has only been tested against an Azure Cosmos Gremlin database. In theory, it should work for any Gremlin-enabled database but the current limitation is in the way to Reaction authenticates against the target database using a container and a secret key. This approach may not map to other Gremlin databases, requiring code modifications before the Reaction can be used.
{{% /alert %}}

## Requirements
On the computer from where you will create the Gremlin Command Reaction, you need to install the [Drasi CLI](/reference/command-line-interface/).

You will need the following information about the Gremlin database on which you want to execute commands:
- **Host Address**: The host name where the Gremlin database is hosted.
- **Port**: The port number through which the database can be accessed.
- **Database Name**: The name of the specific database you want to interact with.
- **Container Name**: The name of the container within the database that holds the data.
- **Primary Key**: The primary key used for authentication and access to the database.

## Creating the Reaction
To create a Reaction, execute the `drasi apply` command as follows:

```text
drasi apply -f my-reaction.yaml -n drasi-namespace
```

The `drasi apply` command is how you create all new Drasi resources (in this case a Reaction). The `-f` flag specifies that the definition of the new Reaction is contained in the referenced YAML file `my-reaction.yaml` and the `-n` flag specifies the Drasi namespace in which to create the Reaction (Drasi must already be installed in that namespace).

## Reaction Definitions
The YAML file passed to `drasi apply` can contain one or more Reaction definitions. Here is an example of a Gremlin Command Reaction definition, that is used to update `Room` nodes with a `COmfortLevel` based on the output of the `room-comfort-level-calc` Continuous Query:

```yaml {#room-comfort-level-reaction}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Reaction
name: room-comfort-level
  kind: Gremlin
  queries:
    room-comfort-level-calc: 
  properties:
    AddedResultCommand: g.V('@RoomId').hasLabel('Room').property('comfortLevel', @ComfortLevel )
    UpdatedResultCommand: g.V('@after.RoomId').hasLabel('Room').property('comfortLevel', @after.ComfortLevel )
#    DeletedResultCommand: // Not currently implemented in ReactionProvider; issue logged for resolution.
    DatabaseHost:
      kind: Secret
      name: comfy-gremlin
      key: DatabaseHost
    DatabasePrimaryKey:
      kind: Secret
      name: comfy-gremlin
      key: DatabasePrimaryKey
    DatabaseName: Contoso
    DatabaseContainerName: Facilities
    DatabasePort: "443"
```

In this definition: 
- the **apiVersion** must be **v1**.
- the **kind** property tells Drasi to create a **Reaction** resource.
- the **spec.kind** property tells Drasi the kind of Reaction to create, in this case a **Gremlin** Reaction. 
- the **name** property tells Drasi the identity of the Reaction and must be unique within the scope of Reactions within the target Drasi environment. In the above example, the **name** of the Reaction is **room-comfort-level**.

This table describes the other settings in the **spec** section of the Reaction definition:
|Property|Description|
|-|-|
|queries|Specifies the set of **names** of the Continuous Queries the Reaction will subscribe to.|
|AddedResultCommand| |
|UpdatedResultCommand| |
|DeletedResultCommand| |
|DatabaseHost| |
|DatabasePrimaryKey| |
|DatabaseName| |
|DatabaseContainerName| |
|DatabasePort| |

## Modifying the Reaction
Currently, Drasi does not support the modification of existing Reactions. You must [Delete the Reaction](#deleting-the-reaction), make changes to the Reaction definition file, and [Create the Reaction](#creating-the-reaction) again.

## Deleting the Reaction
To delete a Reaction you use the `drasi delete` command. There are two ways to do this. 

Firstly, you can specify the type of resource (Reaction) and its name, for example:

```text
drasi delete reaction room-comfort-level
```

Secondly, you can refer to the YAML file(s) that contain the definitions used to create the Reaction(s):

```text
drasi delete -f my-reaction.yaml <file2.yaml> <file3.yaml> <...>
```

This is a convenience, especially if a single YAML file contains multiple Reaction definitions. 

If the Reaction is not in the default Drasi namespace, you should specific the target namespace using the `-n` flag as usual:

```text
drasi delete -f my-reaction.yaml -n drasi-namespace
```